# 2105. Watering Plants II
## Problem Statement
Alice and Bob want to water `n` `plants` in their garden. The plants are arranged in a row and are labeled from `0` to `n - 1` from left to right where the ith plant is located at `x = i`.

Each plant needs a specific amount of water. Alice and Bob have a watering can each, initially full. They water the plants in the following way:
1. Alice waters the plants in order from left to right, starting from the `0th` plant. Bob waters the plants in order from right to left, starting from the `(n - 1)th` plant. They begin watering the plants simultaneously.
2. It takes the same amount of time to water each plant regardless of how much water it needs.
3. Alice/Bob must water the plant if they have enough in their can to fully water it. Otherwise, they first refill their can (instantaneously) then water the plant.
4. In case both Alice and Bob reach the same plant, the one with more water currently in his/her watering can should water this plant. If they have the same amount of water, then Alice should water this plant.
5. Given a `0-indexed` integer array plants of n integers, where `plants[i]` is the amount of water the `ith` plant needs, and two integers `capacityA` and `capacityB` representing the capacities of Alice's and Bob's watering cans respectively, return the number of times they have to refill to water all the plants.

## Understanding The Problem Statement
Now, looking at the problem statement above it is very clear that we need to check on how many times Alice and Bob have to re-fill their watering can to water all the plants. Now, the catch here is that **re-filling the watering can means that the water is refilled back to the same amount that both Alice and Bob initially had**.

Alice is starting to water the plants from the left side of the row and Bob is starting to water the plants from the right side of the row, which clearly means that we have to use the **Two Pointer Approach** to solve the given problem.

If they water the plants from two different ends then according to the problem statement, the water which will remain in their watering can would be `capacityA -= plants[alice_ptr]` and `capacityB -= plants[bob_ptr]` also, either of the both can only water the plants when `capacityA >= plants[alice_ptr]` and `capacityB >= plants[bob_ptr]` respectively for Alice and Bob, else they will have to fill their watering cans again!

Also, according to the problem statement it is clear that when they both reach the same plant then one with more water currently in his/her watering can should water this plant. If they have the same amount of water, then Alice should water this plant.

**But the catch in above statement is that when they have reached the same plant then, we do not have to care about how much water is left in their watering cans, we just have to check if both of them needs to fill the watering can or not!**

## Identifying the Algorithm Pattern To Solve The Problem
As, we discussed above we can clearly see that the problem can be solved using the principle of **Two Pointer Approach**

## Recalling Two Pointer Algorithm
Two Pointer Algorithm is an algorithm where we start from the two ends of the given array and keep traversing towards each other till the two pointers meet each other.

**Note**
Here we put the condition such that the two pointers do not overlap each other, which might lead to coming across the same array elements again.

## Algorithm
Let us now discuss the algorithm to solve the given problem using the following **test case**
**Test Case 1**
`plants = [2,2,3,3], capacityA = 3, capacityB = 4`

1. Initialise the variables `alice_ptr = 0` and `bob_ptr = plants.size() - 1` that are the two pointers that denotes the position of Alice and Bob. `water_filling_rounds = 0` which keep tracks of the number of times anyone of them has to refill the watering can, followed by `capA = capacityA` and `capB = capacityB` which acts as another watering can when refill needs to be done.
2. Use two pointer approach where we start watering the plants from two different ends of the row with the conition as `while(alice_ptr <= bob_ptr)`.
3. Now, check for the first very clear condition which is `if(capacityA < plants[alice_ptr] && capacityB < plants[bob_ptr])`, then we will need to refill the watering cans.
4. Else, we have much water with us to water the plants, then check for the condition that we have enough water with us or not by `if capacityA >= plants[alice_ptr]`, this means that as have water to water the plants with us, so we perform the operation `capacityA -= plants[alice_ptr]` 
5. Else, we have to refill the watering can, so we perform the following step `water_filling_rounds++` and `capacityA = capA - plants[alice_ptr]`.
6. Now, similarly check for Bob's round to water the plants as `if capacityB >= plants[bob_ptr]` we perform the operation `capacityB -= plants[bob_ptr]`
7. Else, we we have to refill the watering can, so we perform the following step `water_filling_rounds++` and `capacityB = capB - plants[bob_ptr]`.
8. Move to the next plant from both the ends of the row by `alice_ptr++` and `bob_ptr--`.

Now, looking at the given test case we see that Alice can water the **first** plant and Bob can water the **last** plant only because after that they will need to refill their water cans. 

Hence we have the solution as **2**.

## Solution

```
class Solution {
public:
  int minimumRefill(vector<int>& plants, int capacityA, int capacityB) {
    int alice_ptr = 0;
    int bob_ptr = plants.size() - 1;
    int water_filling_rounds = 0;
    int capA = capacityA;
    int capB = capacityB;
    while(alice_ptr <= bob_ptr){
      if(alice_ptr == bob_ptr){
        if(capacityA < plants[alice_ptr] && capacityB < plants[bob_ptr])
          water_filling_rounds++;
      }
      else{
        if(capacityA >= plants[alice_ptr])
          capacityA -= plants[alice_ptr];
        else{
          water_filling_rounds++;
          capacityA = capA - plants[alice_ptr];
        }
        if(capacityB >= plants[bob_ptr])
          capacityB -= plants[bob_ptr];
        else{
          water_filling_rounds++;
          capacityB = capB - plants[bob_ptr];
        }
      }
      bob_ptr--;
      alice_ptr++;
    }
    return water_filling_rounds;
  }
};
```

## Time Complexity
The time complexity of the above algorithm is O(n), as we are traversing the array once.

## Space Complexity
The space complexity of the above algorithm is O(1), as we are no allocating any extra space.
