# 303. Range Sum Query - Immutable
## Problem Statement
Given an integer array nums, handle multiple queries of the following type:

Calculate the sum of the elements of nums between indices left and right inclusive where `left <= right`.
Implement the NumArray class:

`NumArray(int[] nums)` Initializes the object with the integer array nums.
int sumRange(int left, int right) Returns the sum of the elements of nums between indices left and right inclusive (i.e. `nums[left] + nums[left + 1] + ... + nums[right]`).

## Understanding The Problem Statement
Let us break the problem statement to understand what it has asked us:-
1. To calculate the sum of the array `nums` elements including both the indices left and right.
2. Initializing an array which would contain the sum in order `nums[left] + nums[left + 1] + ... + nums[right]`, for a given index left and right.
3. The output will be the sum of the elements of the elements in the array between indices left and right both inclusive.


## Identifying the Algorithm Pattern To Solve The Problem
Looking into the problem statement we see an interesting pattern being followed here
`nums[left] + nums[left + 1] + ... + nums[right]` where `left` and `right` are the indices of the array `nums`.
This pattern tells us about the **Prefix Sum Algorithmic Pattern**.

## Recalling Prefix Sum Algorithm
Prefix Sum is an algorithm where we sum up all the elements including the element at the index till which we have to compute the prefix sum.

Here according to the problem statement we will have to calculate the prefix sum of each element present in the array so, for that we will have to assign the element itself to the first element of the array since, there is no element preceeding the first element in the array.

However, there is another way to calculate the prefix sum which we will discuss in the **extension** of this section at the end.

**Note**

Can you see an interesting pattern here?

While we are calculating the prefix sum of the array, we always have the sum till **ith index**, so while we are calculating the sum from a given `index i to a given index j` in the prefix-sum array we already have the sum till **ith index** and **jth index** so, if we calculate the difference of `prefix_sum_array[j] - prefix_sum_array[i - 1]` it will give us the sum between the given two indices `i and j` both inclusive.

## Working With Test-Cases
Since, now we have a hint of the problem being solved by using the concept of **Prefix Sum** so, let us have a look into one of the test-cases to try solving this problem.

**Test Case 1**
`["NumArray", "sumRange", "sumRange", "sumRange"]`
`[[[-2, 0, 3, -5, 2, -1]], [0, 2], [2, 5], [0, 5]]`

Let us understand the given test-case the first subarray given to us inside the array in which we have to perform our operation and then the subsequest subarrays are the range queries where `sumRange[0]` denotes `left` and `sumRange[1]` denotes `right`.

Now, let's decode the approach as discussed let us calculate the prefix-sum for each element in the given array, so the prefix sum array would be `[-2, -2, 1, -4, -2, -3]`, now take:-
1. `sumRange[0]` i.e. [0, 2], here we calculate the sum from `index 0 to 2`, since sum till index 0 is 0 itself and sum till `index 2` is 1, so the final sum becomes as 1.
2. Similarly, `sumRange[1]` i.e. [2, 5], the sum till `index 5` is -3 and sum till `index 1` is -2, so the sum of numbers between `index 2 and 5` is -3 - (-2) which is -1, as so the third case can be understood similarly.

Thus the output array being `[null, 1, -1, -3]` (ignore the null here, you just have to focus on returning the sum in the range of the given index).

## Solution

```
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
class  NumArray {
public:
vector<int> prefix_sum_array;
NumArray(vector<int>&  nums) {
	prefix_sum_array.resize(nums.size());
	prefix_sum_array[0] = nums[0];
	for(int index = 1; index < nums.size(); index++)
		prefix_sum_array[index] = prefix_sum_array[index - 1] + nums[index];
}
int  sumRange(int  left, int  right) {
	if(left == 0)
		return prefix_sum_array[right];
	return prefix_sum_array[right] - prefix_sum_array[left - 1];
}
};

```

## Recalling Prefix Sum Algorithm (Extension)
There is an interesting formulae if we carefully look at the Prefix Sum algorithm, which says:-
`difference_between_two_indices = prefix_sum[right + 1] - prefix_sum[left]` where `left and right` are the sumRange in the given problem.

Now, you might be thinking is from our `prefix_sum_array = [-2, -2, 1, -4, -2, -3]`, that for given `sumRange = [0, 2]` this does not holds correctly because `-4 - (-2) = -2` but the correct output is `1`, so there is a twist while you are using the given formulae here because our `prefix_sum_array` needs to be computed with a different approach, but how?

Now, to use the formulae given to us above we will need to compute the `prefix_sum_array` by first taking the first element of `prefix_sum_array` as `0`, because there is no element on the left of `nums`, so we assume that the prefix sum of the first element of `nums` array is `0`, next we will calculate the prefix sum same as we did in our previous approach.

So, while calculating we observe that the size of `prefix_sum_array` comes to be one greater than, the previous approach array size, but no problem since the overall space complexity turns out to be `O(n)` it's fine for us to declare the size of `prefix_sum_array` as `nums.size() + 1` and assigning all of it's element as `0` initially, because during summation adding any number to `0` is the number itself.

Hence, our final `prefix_sum_array = [0, -2, -2, 1, -4, -2, -3]`, so now let us understand this approach using another test case where `sumRange = [2, 5]`. Hence, using the formulae we get `-3 - (-2) = -1` which is the correct output.

Hence our code now changes to

```
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
class  NumArray {
public:
vector<int> prefix_sum_array;
NumArray(vector<int>&  nums) {
	prefix_sum_array.resize(nums.size() + 1, 0);
	for(int index = 0; index < nums.size(); index++)
		prefix_sum_array[index + 1] = prefix_sum_array[index] + nums[index];
}
int  sumRange(int  left, int  right) {
	return prefix_sum_array[right + 1] - prefix_sum_array[left];
}
};

```

## Time Complexity

The time complexity of the above algorithm would be O(n), since we are traversing the complete array to calculate the prefix sum.

## Space Compleixty

The space complexity of the above algorithm would be O(n), for declaring an extra array to store the prefix sum.